There is a plethora of guides out there about how to securly store passwords, but there are not as many of those guides that apply to [Flask](#) specifically.  I spend quite a but of my free time on the Pallets discord helping people out with their Flask questions, and often enough we have people storing passwords as plain text.  So I thought I woud write about the different options one has when password hashing in Flask.

## How To Store Passwords

Quite simply put, the only way to securely store a password, is to not store it at all. Instead what we do is put the password through a hashing algorithm, and store the hash output instead.  Then when you need to check if a password is correct on a login for for example, you hash the submitted password, and compare that hash with the hash you have stored in the database.  If they match, then the password is correct.

You don't want to use just any general purpose hashing algorithm (md5, sha1/2/3 as examples) though.  Those are designed to be as fast as possible, and some of them are old and have been defeated by faster modern hardware.  Another reason to not use a general purpose hashing algorithm is that it is easy to obtain something called a "rainbow table", which is a giant list of precalculated password input and hash output combinations.  If you use a general purpose hash algorith, and your database is breached, someone can just use this ranbow table to reverse lookup what the original password was.  In a perfect world this would not matter too much, since people should not use the same password on multiple websites/services, but we do not live in a perfect world.

Instead of a general purpose hashing algorithm, you want to use an algorithm designed for passwords.  These algorithms combine the password with a random "salt", which is a relatively short random string, and a cost/work/iterations factor, which is a number used to increase the number of hashing rounds (the hash output will be hashed again and again...) in order to increase the time it takes to hash the password.  With these two strategies combined, you are protected against rainbow tables, since a rainbow table cant take in to account a random salt, and better protecfted agains brute force attacks on your site, since you can configure the time it takes to hash/verify a password to be long enough to make bruce force attacks ineffecient.

(unfinished)
